Nmap NFS NSE Scripts
Once we find NFS running,
we can collect additional information,
enumerate NFS services,
and discover
additional services using NSE scripts
found in the nmap scripts directory.
We can run all three of these scripts
using a wildcard character
in the script name.
Let’s see what we can uncover
with this scan.
In this case, the entire home
directory is being shared
and we can access it by mounting
it on our Kali machine.
We will use mount to do this,
along with -o nolock
to disable file locking,
which is often needed for
older NFS servers.
Based on this file listing, we can see
that there are a few home directories
for local users on the remote machine.
Digging a bit deeper,
we find a filename that
catches our attention.
Let’s try to view it:
It appears we do not have permission
to view this file.
Taking a closer look at the file,
we notice that its owner
has a UUID of 1014,
and the file has read, write,
and execute permissions on it.
What can we do with this information?
Since we have complete access to our Kali machine,
we can try to add a local user to it
using the adduser command,
change its UUID to 1014,
su to that user, and then
try accessing the file again.
Let’s begin by adding a
user with the adduser command.
Based on the output above,
we can see that the new user
has a UUID of 1001,
which is not really what we need.
We can change it to 1014 using sed
and confirm the change took place.
The -i option is used to replace
the file in-place
and the -e option executes a script.
The final argument is the script
which replaces all occurances
of 1001 with 1004
So far so good.
Let’s su to the newly added pwn user,
verify that our UUID has indeed changed,
and then try accessing
that creds file again.
We will use the su command to change
the current login session’s owner.
Then, we will use id to display
our current user ID.
Finally, we will try to
access the file again.
Excellent!
We can now read the file and
make changes to it if we wish.
Although the file contents were not what
we expected in this particular instance,
systems with this level of security are
notorious for storing
sensitive information
in plain-text files.
Take a moment to think about what else we
might have been able to do in this case,
from having SSH keys replaced,
to reading confidential files,
and so forth.